admin/feedback/sourcery/pr48.md, before:

# Sourcery Review Analysis
**PR**: #48
**Repository**: grimm00/dev-infra
**Generated**: Mon Dec 15 10:55:00 CST 2025

---

## Summary

Total Individual Comments: 4 + Overall Comments

## Individual Comments

### Comment #1

**Location**: `tests/unit/new-project.bats:94-98`

**Type**: suggestion (testing)

**Description**: As written, this will pass if README contains any `experimental` mention, even if the intended disclaimer text is missing or altered, so it’s a weak regression guard.

<details>
<summary>Details</summary>

<b>Code Context</b>

<pre><code>
+    [ -f &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/.cursor/commands/status.md&quot; ]
+}
+
+@test &quot;new-project: experimental-project README includes stability disclaimer&quot; {
+    export PROJECT_NAME=&quot;test-experimental&quot;
+    export PROJECT_TYPE=&quot;experimental-project&quot;
+    export TARGET_DIR=&quot;$TEST_TMPDIR&quot;
+    export INIT_GIT=&quot;false&quot;
+    
+    run &quot;$SCRIPT&quot; --non-interactive
+    
+    [ &quot;$status&quot; -eq 0 ]
+    # Check README contains experimental template warning
+    grep -q &quot;Experimental Template&quot; &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/README.md&quot; || \
+    grep -q &quot;experimental&quot; &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/README.md&quot;
+}
</code></pre>

<b>Issue</b>

**suggestion (testing):** Strengthen the README disclaimer assertion to avoid false positives

<b>Suggestion</b>

<pre><code>
    [ &quot;$status&quot; -eq 0 ]
    # Check README contains a specific experimental template disclaimer to avoid false positives
    grep -Ei &quot;Experimental Template|stability is not guaranteed&quot; &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/README.md&quot;
}
</code></pre>

</details>

---

### Comment #2

**Location**: `tests/unit/new-project.bats:59-68`

**Type**: suggestion (testing)

**Description**: The test currently only asserts that `docs/EXPERIMENTAL.md` exists, so an empty or incomplete file would still pass. If ADRs specify required messaging (e.g., a standard heading or warning about instability/breaking changes), consider adding a `grep` check for a key phrase to ensure the file’s content remains valid over time.

<details>
<summary>Details</summary>

<b>Code Context</b>

<pre><code>
+    # Script should accept experimental-project without error
+}
+
+@test &quot;new-project: experimental-project includes EXPERIMENTAL.md&quot; {
+    export PROJECT_NAME=&quot;test-experimental&quot;
+    export PROJECT_TYPE=&quot;experimental-project&quot;
+    export TARGET_DIR=&quot;$TEST_TMPDIR&quot;
+    export INIT_GIT=&quot;false&quot;
+    
+    run &quot;$SCRIPT&quot; --non-interactive
+    
+    [ &quot;$status&quot; -eq 0 ]
+    [ -f &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/docs/EXPERIMENTAL.md&quot; ]
+}
+
</code></pre>

<b>Issue</b>

**suggestion (testing):** Consider verifying key content inside EXPERIMENTAL.md, not just its presence

</details>

---

### Comment #3

**Location**: `tests/unit/new-project.bats:138-143`

**Type**: suggestion (testing)

**Description**: Since the description states that stability warnings/confirmations are skipped in non-interactive mode (for CI/automation), it’d be good to assert that explicitly. All current experimental tests use `--non-interactive` but only check for successful generation.

<details>
<summary>Details</summary>

<b>Code Context</b>

<pre><code>
+    [ -d &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/frontend&quot; ]
+}
+
+@test &quot;new-project: help text includes experimental-project&quot; {
+    run &quot;$SCRIPT&quot; --help
+    
+    [ &quot;$status&quot; -eq 0 ]
+    # Help should mention experimental-project
+    echo &quot;$output&quot; | grep -q &quot;experimental-project&quot; || \
+    echo &quot;$output&quot; | grep -q &quot;experimental&quot;
+}
</code></pre>

<b>Issue</b>

**suggestion (testing):** Add a test that non-interactive mode skips the experimental warning/confirmation as intended

</details>

---

### Comment #4

**Location**: `docs/PROJECT-TYPES.md:230`

**Type**: Choose Experimental Project If

**Description**: Consider `Starting a new internal team project` to better match the style of the other checklist items and improve grammatical flow.

<details>
<summary>Details</summary>

<b>Code Context</b>

<pre><code>

+**Choose Experimental Project If:**
+
+- [ ] Starting new internal team project
+- [ ] Want early access to new features
+- [ ] Comfortable with potential instability
</code></pre>

<b>Issue</b>

**nitpick (typo):** Minor grammar tweak: consider adding &quot;a&quot; for smoother phrasing.

<b>Suggestion</b>

<pre><code>
- [ ] Starting a new internal team project
</code></pre>

</details>

---

## Overall Comments

- Template type handling is now spread across help text, non-interactive validation, and the interactive menu; consider centralizing the allowed template types in a single constant or helper to avoid future drift when adding or renaming templates.
- The new BATS tests introduce their own `TEST_*_DIR` variables and manual `rm -rf` cleanup on top of `setup_test_env`/`cleanup_test_env`; if the helpers already isolate temp directories, you could simplify the tests by deriving paths from those helpers and letting them handle cleanup.

## Priority Matrix Assessment

| Comment | Priority | Impact | Effort | Notes |
|---------|----------|--------|--------|-------|
| #1 | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟢 LOW | ✅ Fixed in PR #50 (test-assertion-improvements-medium-low-01) |
| #2 | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟢 LOW | ✅ Fixed in PR #50 (test-assertion-improvements-medium-low-01) |
| #3 | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟢 LOW | 🟡 MEDIUM | ✅ Fixed in PR #51 (test-assertion-improvements-medium-medium-01) |
| #4 | 🟢 LOW | 🟢 LOW | 🟢 LOW | Grammar fix - Fix now |
| Overall #1 | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟡 MEDIUM | Centralize template types - Defer |
| Overall #2 | 🟢 LOW | 🟢 LOW | 🟢 LOW | Test cleanup simplification - Defer |

**Summary:**
- **CRITICAL/HIGH:** 0 (no blockers)
- **MEDIUM:** 4 (deferred to future PR - test improvements)
- **LOW:** 2 (1 fixed now, 1 deferred)

**Action:** Fix #4 now (grammar), defer rest to fix batch

### Priority Levels
- 🔴 **CRITICAL**: Security, stability, or core functionality issues
- 🟠 **HIGH**: Bug risks or significant maintainability issues
- 🟡 **MEDIUM**: Code quality and maintainability improvements
- 🟢 **LOW**: Nice-to-have improvements

### Impact Levels
- 🔴 **CRITICAL**: Affects core functionality
- 🟠 **HIGH**: User-facing or significant changes
- 🟡 **MEDIUM**: Developer experience improvements
- 🟢 **LOW**: Minor improvements

### Effort Levels
- 🟢 **LOW**: Simple, quick changes
- 🟡 **MEDIUM**: Moderate complexity
- 🟠 **HIGH**: Complex refactoring
- 🔴 **VERY_HIGH**: Major rewrites

Commit message:

docs: update fix plans and Sourcery reviews for quick wins batches
- Mark quick-wins-low-low-02 and quick-wins-low-low-03 as complete
- Update Sourcery reviews to mark issues as fixed
- PR number will be added after PR creation

admin/feedback/sourcery/pr48.md, after:

# Sourcery Review Analysis
**PR**: #48
**Repository**: grimm00/dev-infra
**Generated**: Mon Dec 15 10:55:00 CST 2025

---

## Summary

Total Individual Comments: 4 + Overall Comments

## Individual Comments

### Comment #1

**Location**: `tests/unit/new-project.bats:94-98`

**Type**: suggestion (testing)

**Description**: As written, this will pass if README contains any `experimental` mention, even if the intended disclaimer text is missing or altered, so it’s a weak regression guard.

<details>
<summary>Details</summary>

<b>Code Context</b>

<pre><code>
+    [ -f &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/.cursor/commands/status.md&quot; ]
+}
+
+@test &quot;new-project: experimental-project README includes stability disclaimer&quot; {
+    export PROJECT_NAME=&quot;test-experimental&quot;
+    export PROJECT_TYPE=&quot;experimental-project&quot;
+    export TARGET_DIR=&quot;$TEST_TMPDIR&quot;
+    export INIT_GIT=&quot;false&quot;
+    
+    run &quot;$SCRIPT&quot; --non-interactive
+    
+    [ &quot;$status&quot; -eq 0 ]
+    # Check README contains experimental template warning
+    grep -q &quot;Experimental Template&quot; &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/README.md&quot; || \
+    grep -q &quot;experimental&quot; &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/README.md&quot;
+}
</code></pre>

<b>Issue</b>

**suggestion (testing):** Strengthen the README disclaimer assertion to avoid false positives

<b>Suggestion</b>

<pre><code>
    [ &quot;$status&quot; -eq 0 ]
    # Check README contains a specific experimental template disclaimer to avoid false positives
    grep -Ei &quot;Experimental Template|stability is not guaranteed&quot; &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/README.md&quot;
}
</code></pre>

</details>

---

### Comment #2

**Location**: `tests/unit/new-project.bats:59-68`

**Type**: suggestion (testing)

**Description**: The test currently only asserts that `docs/EXPERIMENTAL.md` exists, so an empty or incomplete file would still pass. If ADRs specify required messaging (e.g., a standard heading or warning about instability/breaking changes), consider adding a `grep` check for a key phrase to ensure the file’s content remains valid over time.

<details>
<summary>Details</summary>

<b>Code Context</b>

<pre><code>
+    # Script should accept experimental-project without error
+}
+
+@test &quot;new-project: experimental-project includes EXPERIMENTAL.md&quot; {
+    export PROJECT_NAME=&quot;test-experimental&quot;
+    export PROJECT_TYPE=&quot;experimental-project&quot;
+    export TARGET_DIR=&quot;$TEST_TMPDIR&quot;
+    export INIT_GIT=&quot;false&quot;
+    
+    run &quot;$SCRIPT&quot; --non-interactive
+    
+    [ &quot;$status&quot; -eq 0 ]
+    [ -f &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/docs/EXPERIMENTAL.md&quot; ]
+}
+
</code></pre>

<b>Issue</b>

**suggestion (testing):** Consider verifying key content inside EXPERIMENTAL.md, not just its presence

</details>

---

### Comment #3

**Location**: `tests/unit/new-project.bats:138-143`

**Type**: suggestion (testing)

**Description**: Since the description states that stability warnings/confirmations are skipped in non-interactive mode (for CI/automation), it’d be good to assert that explicitly. All current experimental tests use `--non-interactive` but only check for successful generation.

<details>
<summary>Details</summary>

<b>Code Context</b>

<pre><code>
+    [ -d &quot;$TEST_PROJECT_DIR/frontend&quot; ]
+}
+
+@test &quot;new-project: help text includes experimental-project&quot; {
+    run &quot;$SCRIPT&quot; --help
+    
+    [ &quot;$status&quot; -eq 0 ]
+    # Help should mention experimental-project
+    echo &quot;$output&quot; | grep -q &quot;experimental-project&quot; || \
+    echo &quot;$output&quot; | grep -q &quot;experimental&quot;
+}
</code></pre>

<b>Issue</b>

**suggestion (testing):** Add a test that non-interactive mode skips the experimental warning/confirmation as intended

</details>

---

### Comment #4

**Location**: `docs/PROJECT-TYPES.md:230`

**Type**: Choose Experimental Project If

**Description**: Consider `Starting a new internal team project` to better match the style of the other checklist items and improve grammatical flow.

<details>
<summary>Details</summary>

<b>Code Context</b>

<pre><code>

+**Choose Experimental Project If:**
+
+- [ ] Starting new internal team project
+- [ ] Want early access to new features
+- [ ] Comfortable with potential instability
</code></pre>

<b>Issue</b>

**nitpick (typo):** Minor grammar tweak: consider adding &quot;a&quot; for smoother phrasing.

<b>Suggestion</b>

<pre><code>
- [ ] Starting a new internal team project
</code></pre>

</details>

---

## Overall Comments

- Template type handling is now spread across help text, non-interactive validation, and the interactive menu; consider centralizing the allowed template types in a single constant or helper to avoid future drift when adding or renaming templates.
- The new BATS tests introduce their own `TEST_*_DIR` variables and manual `rm -rf` cleanup on top of `setup_test_env`/`cleanup_test_env`; if the helpers already isolate temp directories, you could simplify the tests by deriving paths from those helpers and letting them handle cleanup.

## Priority Matrix Assessment

| Comment | Priority | Impact | Effort | Notes |
|---------|----------|--------|--------|-------|
| #1 | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟢 LOW | ✅ Fixed in PR #50 (test-assertion-improvements-medium-low-01) |
| #2 | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟢 LOW | ✅ Fixed in PR #50 (test-assertion-improvements-medium-low-01) |
| #3 | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟢 LOW | 🟡 MEDIUM | ✅ Fixed in PR #51 (test-assertion-improvements-medium-medium-01) |
| #4 | 🟢 LOW | 🟢 LOW | 🟢 LOW | ✅ Fixed in PR #52 (quick-wins-low-low-03) |
| Overall #1 | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟡 MEDIUM | 🟡 MEDIUM | Centralize template types - Defer |
| Overall #2 | 🟢 LOW | 🟢 LOW | 🟢 LOW | ✅ Fixed in PR #52 (quick-wins-low-low-03) |

**Summary:**
- **CRITICAL/HIGH:** 0 (no blockers)
- **MEDIUM:** 4 (deferred to future PR - test improvements)
- **LOW:** 2 (1 fixed now, 1 deferred)

**Action:** Fix #4 now (grammar), defer rest to fix batch

### Priority Levels
- 🔴 **CRITICAL**: Security, stability, or core functionality issues
- 🟠 **HIGH**: Bug risks or significant maintainability issues
- 🟡 **MEDIUM**: Code quality and maintainability improvements
- 🟢 **LOW**: Nice-to-have improvements

### Impact Levels
- 🔴 **CRITICAL**: Affects core functionality
- 🟠 **HIGH**: User-facing or significant changes
- 🟡 **MEDIUM**: Developer experience improvements
- 🟢 **LOW**: Minor improvements

### Effort Levels
- 🟢 **LOW**: Simple, quick changes
- 🟡 **MEDIUM**: Moderate complexity
- 🟠 **HIGH**: Complex refactoring
- 🔴 **VERY_HIGH**: Major rewrites
